[Proposal] POEM: provide array result for all runtime images (#5244)
apache/openwhisk: proposals/POEM-support-array-result.md

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->
# Title

> Currently, openwhisk supports return json object only, e.g.

Author: Updated accordingly

```shell
# wsk action invoke hello -r
{
    "greeting": "Hello stranger!"
}
```

> It is necessary to support return array for common action, e.g.

Author: Updated accordingly

```shell
# wsk action invoke hello-array -r
[
    "a",
    "b"
]
```

> For sequence action, need to support as well.

Author: Updated accordingly

# Status
* Current state: In-progress
* Author(s): @ningyougang

# Summary and Motivation

> This POEM proposes a new feature that allows user to write their own action which supports array result.

Author: Updated accordingly

> So the result will support object and array both in future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So actions would be able to return a JSON object or an array.
```

Author: Updated accordingly

# Proposed changes
## Openwhisk main repo

> Make controller and invoker support array result both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make controller and invoker support both a JSON object and an array result.
```

## Runtime repos

> All runtime images should support array result. e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All runtime images should support an array result. e.g.
```

Author: Updated accordingly

* nodejs (supports by default)
* go
* java
* python
* php
* shell
* docker
* ruby
* dotnet
* rust
* swift 
* deno
* ballerina

## Openwhisk-cli repo

> * When use wsk to execute action, need to support parse array result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `wsk` CLI needs to support parsing an array result when executing actions.
```

Author: Updated accordingly

> * When use wsk to get activation, need to support parse array result as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `wsk` CLI needs to support parsing an array result when getting activations.
```

Author: Updated accordingly
